Jordan Banks is an acclaimed photographer, best known for his stunning landscapes and portraits.
In this conversation with Randy Ginsburg, he discusses his journey into the world of digital ownership and creative freedom.

Jordan discovered that he had an eye for composition long before he first picked up a camera.
“I’ve always been interested in the human condition and the significance of interactions, even when they're just for a brief moment in time,” he explains.
“I've always seen the world in little frames.” 

After some rudimentary experimentation with film as a child, Jordan thought that he had found his calling.
Years later, he set off to fulfill his dreams as a conflict photographer. He landed his first gig assisting a news cameraman.
However, he quickly realised that this wasn’t the path that he had envisioned. 

“I didn’t want to film a reporter covering these issues.
I wanted to go and see these things myself, and capture the raw moments that will change policies and minds,” he says.
“I wanted to do something that really made a difference in the world.” 

Splash, captured in Nandgaon in India, 'where the past seamlessly blends with the present.

But after acknowledging the physical and psychological risks associated with the job, Jordan pivoted to the lighter, safer path of destination photography.
The rest was history. 

Over the last twenty years, Jordan has cemented himself as a pillar of the travel and destination photography community.
From New York to Mathura, Jordan has ventured across the world, sharing his work in publications like National Geographic, Time, and Conde Nast, while being commissioned by some of the world’s largest companies like British Airways, Apple, and Microsoft. 

“I've always seen the world in little frames.” 
— Jordan Banks

Unlike many digital-age photographers, who showcase heavily-edited, Instagram-ready photos, Jordan has won over travel enthusiasts and photography purists alike with his radically different approach. 

Holi, shot in the Mathura region in India, and published in National Geographic Traveller magazine.

“I try to capture the raw moment exactly as it is so that people can actually go to that place and see the same thing,” he says.
“If you stop watching television, get outside, and experience the world for 300 days of the year, you’re going to see some pretty incredible stuff.”

Now, Jordan is bringing this authenticity and emotion to the blockchain, where it will live in perpetuity.
Like many other members of the community, Jordan was introduced to web3 in early 2021.
But, unlike others who jumped in head first, Jordan approached the hype with some scepticism.  

“I wanted to do something that really made a difference in the world.” 
— Jordan Banks 

“I spent three or four months on the sidelines, just watching, learning, and connecting with people.
I wasn’t worried about minting, money, or flips, just building relationships,” he recalls.
“I saw the long-term beauty of web3 almost instantly after that. It felt like I had rediscovered the internet.” 

Doors from Jordan's two-part series, Rainbow World, which depicts 'the eclectic colours that make up the fabric of our world.'

Despite watching other photographers rush in and make money straight off the bat, Jordan knew there was a bigger strategy at play.
After months of interacting with web3 natives on Twitter, and building a supportive community of photography lovers, Jordan released his first piece, Doors, into the world.
After a few months, he sold the piece on auction for 2.70E.
Then another, and another.

Before he knew it, he was accepted to SuperRare, a highly-exclusive, invite-only NFT art marketplace, thus earning himself another well-deserved badge of web3 credibility.
By early 2022, Jordan had emerged as one of the premier web3 photographers, building a loyal following of over 10,000 supporters.

“I saw the long-term beauty of web3 almost instantly after that. It felt like I had rediscovered the internet.” 
— Jordan Banks

Despite his early success, Jordan, in true web3 fashion, is sticking to his long-term vision of pursuing full ownership of his work.
The goal is to have my own marketplace on my website,” he said.
“I want to have my own smart contract too.
I wouldn’t sell my physical work without a contract that I had made myself, and the same applies here.”

The next step?
Bringing his highly-acclaimed, bootstrapped, independent travel magazine, JRNY Mag, onto web3. 

In the wake of the pandemic and the subsequent closure of two major travel magazines, Jordan and his business partner and fellow-photographer, Kav Dadfar, launched JRNY Mag to quell the demand for travel content.
Packed with vivid imagery and descriptive long-form editorial content, the inaugural issue won the Travel Media Awards’ “Travel Magazine of the Year.”

Street Life, 'a typical New York night just off Broadway.'

By tokenising JRNY Mag subscriptions as NFTs, Jordan and his team will continue to push the envelope of what’s possible, while connecting with their community and rewarding them for their support in new ways. 

“Even if we fail, and we release 500 pieces and only sell 50, we’ll have shown our forward-thinking.
There isn’t another publication out there doing NFT subscriptions, and we already have an existing community of 10,000 people ready to support our work.”

But while the idea is fresh in his mind, there’s no rush for him to execute it.
As with his initial foray into web3, Jordan accredits his patience to his age and maturity.

“At age 25, I would have jumped in too fast.
But I’ve been here before and I’ve made mistakes.
This is an instance where I’ve found myself in the right place at the right time.
At 40, it makes it easier to make the right decisions when you have the tools and resources required to do so.”
