Few artists make headlines for generating over $1 million in NFT sales — and even fewer would be committed to investing back into the community.
But Amrit Pal Singh isn’t any artist.
His Toy Faces have become iconic not only to NFT aficionados but also to art lovers and digital dwellers around the globe.
And alongside creating a vast and engaging body of work, he’s been growing his own collection with the same passion and sense of purpose that makes his signature style instantly recognisable.

“I have been making art ever since I can remember,” Amrit explains.
But the initial draw, that first galvanisation to create, came from a love of animated movies.
“I was a huge Disney nerd and fell in love with Studio Ghibli.
After that, my passion for history exposed me to art history and architecture.”

Amrit’s sales being splashed over global headlines gave the impression of instant success and fortune, but what might be perceived as overnight success has come from a lifetime spent honing his skills.
While his own fascination with childhood and nostalgia burns bright in Amrit’s art, he also credits his years working in branding and design for helping him build the artistic identity that we recognise today.
After film school, he worked as a motion designer before building up an impressive client roster — including brands like Snapchat, Google, Netflix, Adobe, and Pinterest.

“I started as a designer creating brand identities and digital products.
It's a creative pursuit that is quite different from making art.
Making my art collection is highly self-expressive, whereas client projects have a strict brief and quite a few limitations.”
But while client work may have come with limitations, having a background in corporate design helped shape his approach to digital art, aiding him in creating a cohesive identity and recognisable style.
“I enjoy both and borrow a lot of practices from the design world for my own art, for example, building a brand of non-fungible toys and self-curating my artwork.”

For Amrit, digital art was a natural fit.
“I am one of those people who are more comfortable with a mouse than a pen.”
Moving into the web3 space allowed him to view himself as a holistic creator for the first time.
He was already creating a Toy Faces collection of digital art, having found that people were drawn to portraits and avatars — especially as the pandemic arrived and people began to look for new ways to represent themselves and be playful online.

After a friend mentioned that the collection might work well as NFTs, Amrit minted his first one in February 2021.
This moment marked an immediate change, not just in how his work was received as it spread around the world, but also in the way that Amrit perceived himself.
“Before NFTs, I saw myself as an illustrator and designer; now, it's all about my art practice.” 

And it is quite a practice.
A prolific creator, Amrit is most well known for his Toy Faces and Toy Rooms collection —  both of which are “inspired by nostalgia and a sense of childlike wonder” — but his work is even more wide-ranging.
As with much of Amrit’s signature style, the Toy Faces are deceptively complex.
What initially look like simple, Lego-like portraits are used to capture much more.
From a wizard to Charlie Chaplin, and Medusa to Malala, the faces feature legends, childhood favourites, heroes, and villains.
In exploring his own passion for toys and animation, Amrit taps into an intrinsic desire to be reconnected with another time.

“Like all kids, I was fascinated with toys; however, that fascination never faded,” he says.
“I use toys almost as a canvas because it's universal, and everyone can relate to them.
It is an instant ride back to your childhood.”

Once he found he could use the faces as a vehicle and jumping-off point, he was able to layer on other interests.
“Mixing nerd culture with it gives me so much to play around with.”
The response was almost instant.
With collections on Foundation and SuperRare, Amrit has become a staple of the web3 community. 

The urge to play with something so seemingly simple goes back before his Toy Faces.
Buried in his extensive portfolio are 3D letterings — bold, impactful renderings with stunning typography.
These were, in fact, the beginning of his 3D digital art journey. 

“My love for 3D started with the 3D lettering; letterforms are like canvases, and typographers are artists,” Amrit says.
“I love typography and lettering; I wanted to see what I could do with it.
I enjoyed making these so much that it led to me exploring what else I can do in 3D, so in a way, I owe it all to 3D lettering.” 

Seeing what he can do with simple things, small things, seems to drive Amrit — an innate curiosity and playfulness propel him with a huge velocity.
And this explorative spirit seemed to come into play with Toy Rooms, which would become one of the first collections to drop on Foundation with a custom smart contract. 

But this series began with a limitation so many of us experienced: being confined to our rooms during the pandemic.
While many of us felt the pressure of the four walls that surrounded us, Amrit rediscovered his love of 3D art as he began to imagine and iterate other small rooms.
From a hobbit’s study to Aladin’s cave, a simple room was transformed into something whimsical and utterly charming.
In the limitation of a traumatic period, imagination and inspiration could take hold. 

With such a playful sensibility and a passion for unusual overlaps, it’s easy to see why Amrit has become such an important part of the web3 landscape.
“Web3 is all about community and culture, which I love.
From day one, it was an intersection of so many things I admire, like tech, art, pop culture, and money.
It's amazing to make friends with aligned goals and actually build so much.”

A collection of Amrit's 3D Rooms.
And Amrit's admiration is clearly more than just lip service — he’s made a conscious commitment to give back to web3, both as an avid collector and a promotor of artists. In Voxels (formerly CryptoVoxels) and other methaverses, Amrit has invested in virtual galleries and museums to display art of his own, alongside other artists he admires and has collected. His own collection is diverse and exciting, with a broad range of themes and creators. What draws him to collect a certain artwork or a certain artist? It appears to be a mix of personal taste and love for the artists themselves. 

“There are so many reasons I collect what I collect,” he explains.
“I love colourful art and art that has a distinct style.
I am obsessed with food art, so you will see a lot of it in my collection.
I also love nature-inspired art and portraits.
I research my artists a lot before collecting.
Both art and artists are pretty important.
I love artists who are active and trying hard, in addition to making great art.” 

Supporting active artists — those trying, experimenting, and pushing — is laudable, but also speaks to the contagious enthusiasm of Amrit.
In his own work, he consistently builds, repeats, traverses, and plays.
And there’s no sign of him slowing down.
Along with plans to do solo shows, experimenting with new mediums, and continuing to collaborate, Amrit is determined to keep growing and testing the limits of Toy Faces and Toy Rooms.
“I want to push my existing collections and see what else I can do more.
There is a lot to be explored before introducing a new series.” 
