As a child, Marco was not the typical artistic type.
Rather than doodling away on every piece of paper that he could find, he preferred to be outside.
Most of all, he enjoyed playing sports, especially skateboarding and football — motifs which now appear in several of his 3D animations.
But Marco's flare for creativity did not materialise out of nowhere.
Whilst being outdoors with his friends, Marco started to make videos, and soon became interested in playing with imagery and composition, as well as experimenting with black and white effects.
“I enjoyed making short clips of our adventures,” he recalls.
“In my teen years, I also did some photography.
But I didn't take anything too seriously back then.”

When Marco went to university to study interactive media design, he found himself having to produce work in 3D.
“At first I hated it, as we had to use a super complicated program called Maya.
It took ages to produce visually pleasing output, so it didn't stimulate me at all.”
Developing a distaste for the making process, Marco became increasingly drawn to visualising 3D designs as finished products.
Eventually, his imaginings lead him to realise what he really wanted to create.

“I learnt the most I ever have just by putting in the hours and pushing myself to try new things.”
— Marco Mori

With the knowledge of what, but the question of how, Marco set out on a quest to find the right software to bring his visions to life.
He then came across the 3D modelling and animation software, Cinema 4D, and immediately felt that it was right for him.
“There was a great community of people using it, helping out new members,” he says.
“I started to watch a lot of tutorials and finally got into the process of learning animation properly.
That’s when I got hooked on creating in 3D.”

Marco started to post his work to Instagram and, in 2016, decided to undertake a daily render challenge.
“I had to finish a project every day and upload it,” he recalls.
“I would honestly recommend it to every artist and designer, because it forces you to create.
I learnt the most I ever have just by putting in the hours and pushing myself to try new things.”
After uploading a great deal of his animations, Marco finally got noticed, and some of his videos went viral.
As a result, job offers started to flood into his DMs.
“That’s how my life quite suddenly consisted of working in 3D full-time.”

“It's the weird combinations that make you want to look again.”
— Marco Mori

What led his videos to go viral, and launched the precipitous recognition of his work that followed, Marco attributes to his transition into designing body-figures — specifically those that move in provocative ways.
“At the very beginning, I just animated super random things,” he admits.
“When you first start as a designer, you do not have any experience in creating complex stuff.
I began with spheres, cube-like shapes, and some landscapes.
But I didn’t really feel connected to these geometric forms — or static things in general, quite frankly.
And so my audience didn’t either.
I realised that I had to make stuff that was more personal, exuberant, and relatable, to show the viewer what I’m really about.”
Laughing, Marco adds: “It turned out that making digital 3D humans was also not that hard, actually — especially if you make them a bit weird on purpose.”

‘Weird’ is a keyword for Marco.
“I love integrating strange, human-like figures, and things that are generally just odd.
It's the weird combinations that make you want to look again — or that is what I hope for, at least.”
Marco continuously sources inspiration for his creations, absorbing all the minutiae of his day-to-day life.
“Talks, music, films, books, you name it. 

I soak up everything I see, and often bring it back into my work somehow — especially the things that capture my interest because they are somewhat abnormal.”
His creations have also been influenced by the motion graphics designers, Esteban Diacono and Antoni Tudisco.
“Their work was like nothing I had ever seen before.
When I first came across their videos, I was so in awe that I watched most of them about fifteen times — and that is exactly what I want to achieve with my videos as well.”

“I had a whole body of autonomous work ready to be sold. I realised that this was my chance.”
— Marco Mori

Earning a living from his independent creations alone seemed like a very distant dream to Marco, however.
After university, he mostly worked creating commissions for clients, whilst developing his autonomous work on the side.
But that all changed at the end of 2020, when he saw that other 3D designers were selling their private work for significant sums of money.
“I had a whole body of autonomous work ready to be sold.
I realised that this was my chance.”

First owning Bitcoin in 2012, there is little that Marco hasn’t seen in web3.
By connecting with other artists and collectors, he quickly discerned a strong potential in NFTs.
As a result, he made a Twitter account and applied for SuperRare. 
“I felt that this was the future of living, so I quit working for clients to focus solely on my autonomous work.”
He goes on to recall the joy that he felt after this creative liberation.
Now, Marco is able to earn a living by doing what he enjoys most: making strange, humorous, and often outrageous animations, bound to catch the viewer's attention.
“My art doesn’t really have a special meaning,” says Marco.
“I don't come up with a bigger story to surround every piece of work.
There would be no point, because, in the end, everyone has their own interpretation anyway — and that’s the way I want it; it’s a personal experience, and I just facilitate a starting point for the imagination.”

“I just facilitate a starting point for the imagination.”
— Marco Mori

Since beginning to mint NFTs, Marco has been reaping the rewards of his newfound creative freedom.
“How great is it when people really like the things that you absolutely love to make? It’s the biggest win-win situation that you can hope for as an artist.”
Similarly to many other 3D designers, web3 gave Marco the opportunity to focus exclusively on his own projects for the past two years.
“I don’t make any work for clients anymore.
I find it amazing that I can sell my autonomous work as NFTs, and live off that.”

Now that Marco is no longer obliged to work to the deadlines of others, he finally enjoys taking his time on projects.
So far, he is most satisfied with Aquaria.
“It felt so good to not rush this project.
For the first time, I reworked the smallest details over and over again to make the result as close to my imagination as possible.
I am super happy with the outcome, and better understand the value in not hurrying a process.”
Alongside Aquaria, others of Marco’s works have been exhibited around the globe, with his 3D animations having been flaunted on the big screen in New York, Tokyo, and Madrid, as well as other major cities.
Yet, with so much success already in his arsenal, it seems that this is just a taste of what is to come for Marco Mori.
