Do we see art as it is or art as we are? Objectively or subjectively?
Jenni Pasanen believes that every person draws inspiration from this question.
“When we create art, we are creating what we’ve been through in life,” says the AI artist.
“We create who we are on the canvas.”

Raised in Finland, Jenni has always been an artist, experimenting with various styles throughout her life from the physical – acrylic painting, clay, and sewing – to the digital, including animation and coding.
She increasingly found that she could tie everything together with AI-augmented art,
and when a friend introduced her to NFTs in early 2021, Jenni realised that web3 was the final missing link.

“Everything clicked into place,” she recalls.
“I finally felt like I had found my niche.
I found who I am, and what I want to do;
I found my home in art.”
Jenni quit her job as an animator and became a full-time artist.
Exploring the human mind, anatomty, and science, she has quickly made a name for herself as one of web3's most distinctive and accomplished AI artist.

Having retained a keen interest in psychology and technology from childhood, it is no surprise that these topics are deeply embedded within her art.
And blessed by 13 years spent as an animator, she combines AI (powered by general adversarial networks, or GANs) with digital art paintings, to create compelling surrealism.
“I love making art because you don’t have to follow any rules – it’s the freedom that I love about creating in web3.”

A lifelong creative, Jenni is familiar with the constraints common to digital creators in traditional art.
“Before NFTs, selling digital art in its native form was really challenging and there wasn’t, and still isn’t, an easy way to do it.”
Instead, digital artists rely on commissions, forced to tolerate the creative limitations that come with client work.
“Web3 and NFTs give artists the freedom to sell their art,” she says, reiterating one of the most common reasons why artists have moved into web3, and one shared by other experienced design professionals, from Taya Ferdinand to Amrit Pal Singh.
Attracted by the ability to create freely and earn a living in a community where artists and collectors share a mutual relationship, Jenni shares that it was the community that attracted her to web3 as much as the technology.
“I was drawn to web3 and the NFT community because of the amazing, supportive people, and I am very grateful for this.”

Jenni’s art explores the relationship between man and machine.

“You don’t have to create something that is real,” she explains.
Art is a way to create a visual representation of what is impossible – your art makes it possible.”

“I use Artbreeder’s tiny, pixelated images because they are unfinished and don’t resemble too much of anything,” she shares, referring to the machine-learning art site that is a favourite amongst AI artists.
“There are more advanced functions on Artbreeder, but this allows me to use my imagination more.”
At this point in the process, equipped with the smallest bit of inspiration from the machine-learning art site, Jenni doesn’t yet know what the piece is.
Nevertheless, she starts to tweak the base layer and build out her piece, merging digital painting and AI by layering her own digital strokes and the computer's on top of each other.

For Jenni, AI becomes a playground in which she can explore unlimited inspiration.
“For me, AI is not just a tool or extension of my craft – it’s my muse.”
Jenni embraces the rise of AI in art, rather than fearing it, won over by the belief that “human creativity will never stop evolving.” The natural response, therefore, is to evolve with it.

Jenni’s NFT artwork evokes the wondrous and the surreal, drawing inspiration from a fascinating artistic era of the same name.
Richened by this undertone of Surrealism, she uniquely embraces the relationship between machine and human in her work.
Her collections, such as Time Eclipse and Mask Obscura, question definitions of time and reality as perceived by mankind.

As opposed to the traditional art world where artists are known for their solo work, collaboration thrives in web3, where splitting royalties and sale income is a seamless process.
“I take full advantage of every opportunity that’s available or offered to me.
For Jenni, working with the NFT collective Creative Work Studios, whose recent collaborative pieces have involved Refik Anadol and Kevin Abosch,
helped her create some of her best work, namely her Time Eclipse collection.The collaboration with Creative Work Studios led to her Time Eclipse OpenSea collection, from which the pieces are divided into 3 primary sections: yesterday, today, and tomorrow.

The concept of time, Jenni reveals, has always fascinated her. 
“It is a rabbit hole of endless theories and possibilities.”
She explains that “Time Eclipse is a land of limitless opportunities and dreams up a place where time is not bound.”
The Time Eclipse collection explores the significance of fragility, and is an attempt to preserve and engulf the fleeting passage of our lives.
Its genius lies in simultaneously treating each moment as a distinct fragment of time, whilst showing how each is linked together.
For Jenni, our lives consist of a series of long and intricate moments.
But her interpretation is just one amongst many. Whilst to Jenni, her art exhibits themes of time, life, and nature, she is cognizant that art can have as many interpretations as it can viewers.
Ultimately, she uses AI to generate random shapes, and whilst distinctive, she compares the process to images from a Rorschach inkblot test.
“Even if you show the Rorschach inkblot images to one million people, they all see it differently.”
Indeed, though Jenni’s artwork stems from her self-expression, one can also see themselves in it. In no collection is this more clear than Mask Obscura.
These beautiful, faceless creatures leave much to individual interpretation, and allow viewers to layer their own interpretations atop the brushstrokes and the GAN.

Organised into four themes – seasons, elements, days, and time – and four acts, the collection is a series of beautiful beings, blending time and nature.

Our life experiences, personalities, and emotions build our reality and mould our perception of art.
The faceless, ethereal beings in Mask Obscura explore the relationship between humanity and nature, as opposed to Jenni’s typical trope of the human mind versus AI.
The collection evokes the beauty of life, juxtaposed with the complexities that arise from time, elements, and seasons: the markers of human society.
Mask Obscura, therefore, encompasses a push and pull in a thought-provoking assemblage.
ur life experiences, personalities, and emotions build our reality and mould our perception of art.
Like the Rorschach inkblot test, one image produces as many interpretations as it has viewers.
This begs the question: Do we see art as it is or art as we are?
