In his own words, Sammya Brata’s relationship with photography is more than just a passion.
After adopting the craft over a decade ago, it has since become an instrumental practice for the Indian native: one that’s taken him all the way across the globe.

As a full-time management consultant at PricewaterhouseCoopers, Sammya’s photographic exploits have always been restricted to the hours outside of his working schedule.
But Sammya's day job has been far from a hinderance to his craft, since it is the very thing that brought him to photography in the first place.
In fact, Sammya was first inspired to experiment with the medium whilst travelling for work.
Where he really dove into the craft, however, was in his home city of Calcutta.

“I thought I should start with my home city, where I was born and brought up,” he explains.
“I wanted to see what stories I could bring out in my daily life.
I went outside almost every day, early in the morning before my office hours started, to see what my city looked like in the rising hours of the day.”

Sammya’s love of photography continued to blossom as he honed his skills.
But he also had the desire to be part of a larger community.
Eventually, he took the initiative to build one himself, comprising local people who shared his passion, and decided to create the Instagram account, Calcutta Instagrammers.
Now at over 135,000 followers, the platform has become a major hub for local photographers, and a repository for thousands of images that paint a vivid and deep story of the city.

Sammya's photograph, 'Floating dreams', depicting locals revelling in the flooded streets of North Calcutta.
Although impassioned by the craft, it would take Sammya about four years of practice before he finally settled on his signature style of photography.
“In the year 2014, I got the chance to exhibit one of my works in my hometown of Calcutta,” he recalls.
“That exhibition was curated by Raghu Rai, a very famous photographer.
I got a lot of positive feedback about the kind of work that I'd been doing, so storytelling through street photography has pretty much been my favourite genre of photography since then.”

“It makes you bring the extraordinary out of the ordinary.”
— Sammya Brata

But the feedback wasn't the only reason that Sammya decided to make street photography his bread and butter: it is a style that has piqued his curiosity and fortified his ambition for several reasons.
“Street photography is mysterious to me,” he reveals.
“It brings out certain thought processes that allow me to observe and document the things that usually go unnoticed in our day-to-day lives.
As a street photographer, hitting the shutter is the least important part.
What is most important is observation, the way you see something or anticipate a moment that is going to happen.
I think most street photography work actually happens in your mind.
It makes you bring the extraordinary out of the ordinary.”

His love of street photography has also impacted Sammya on a deeply personal level: it has introduced him to the art of perseverance, and taught him not to take himself too seriously when dealing with other people.
“If you shoot subjects on the streets, there are multiple occasions when people come up to you and object.
